schemeName: Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for Working Women
Keywords: two wheeler, women, bike, commute
Details:
To empower working women, the Tamil Nadu Government started a scheme called "Amma Two Wheeler Scheme".
Under the scheme, the government offers subsidies to assist women in purchasing two wheelers.
Initiative help women to easily commute to their workplaces, businesses, and other destination, which is why the scheme is also regarded as "Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for Working Women".
It is expected that around one lakh women will be benefited from the scheme annually.
The Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for working women promises a subsidy of  25,000 rupees/- or 50% of the vehicle cost, whichever is less.
Government stated that the Scheme will be implemented in all rural and urban areas of Tamil Nadu.
The two wheeler to be purchased under the scheme must be gearless and have an engine capacity less than 125 cc.
The balance amount of the scooter above the subsidy amount shall be borne by the beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries can purchase the scooter of her own choice from her own funds or by availing loan from leading banks and institutions.
Women with a valid driving license or learner license are eligible for Amma Two Wheeler scheme.
The eligible women must be in the age group of 18 to 40 years.
However, there are some other conditions that need to be satisfied by the women.
Beneficiaries can apply for the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme offline.
Applications for the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for Working Women can be obtained from Block Officers, Urban Local Body Officers and from the collectorate office free of cost.
Applicants ensure that the application form should be in prescribed format and all requested documents affixed to it.
Since its launch in 2017, this scheme has empowered many working women of the state.
But in the year 2021, DMK government scrapped the Amma Two Wheeler scheme and commenced "Zero Ticket Bus Travel Scheme for Women"
Women must meet the below mentioned criterias to receive the benefits of Amma Two Wheeler Scheme : -
The women should be a resident of Tamil Nadu.
Age should be between 18 to 40 years.
Must Know Driving.
Have Valid Two Wheeler License/Learner License.
The annual income should not exceed to rupees 2,50,000/-.
Only single women beneficiary is eligible to avail the benefit in a family.
Should have appeared for class 8th examination (Passed/Failed).
Priority will be given to :-
Women living in remote places or mountainous areas.
Female Headed Families.
Deserted Women.
Destitute Widows.
Disabled Women.
Unmarried Women aged above 35 years.
Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe.
Transgenders.
Women with below mentioned criteria are not going to receive scheme benefits : -
Registered Women Worker in the Organized Sector.
Registered Women Worker in the Unorganized Sector.
Women Employed in Shops and Establishment.
Self Employed Women.
Women Working in :-
Government Aided Organizations.
Private Institutions.
Government Projects.
Panchayat Level Federations (PLF) or Village Poverty Reduction Committees (VPRCs).
Makkal Kattral Maiyam (Makamai).
Daily Wager.
Contract Employee.
Banking Correspondents.
Banking Facilitators.
ASHA Workers.
Required Documents:
Aadhaar Card.
Passport Size Photograph.
Proof of Age.
Proof of Residence :-
EPIC Card.
Driving License.
Aadhaar Card.
Utility Bills.
Driving License/Learner Driving License.
Income Certificate /Self Certification.
Proof of Employment issued by :-
Employer.
Organization.
Project Head.
Society in Case of Wage.
Salaried Employment.
Proof of Educational Qualification/Appearance for VIII standard Exam (Transfer Certificate, SSLC etc.)
Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe Certificate.
Differently Abled Identity Card.
Quotation of the Vehicle.
Reservation Details
Amma two wheeler scheme comes with reservtion policy which is given as : -
Category	Reserved Percentage
Schedule Caste (SC)	21%
Schedule Tribe (ST)	1%
Differently Abled/Specially Challenged	4%
Steps to Apply
Collect Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Application Form (Urban/Rural) from Block Offices, Urban Local Body Offices, and the Collectorates of the district free of cost.
Fill all the details in the Application Form correctly.
Attach all the required documents with the Application Form.
Submit this duly filled in application form at the Block Office or Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) office.
The applicant can also send their duly filled application through Speed/Registered Post.
A unique application number will be allotted to all applications.
Acknowledgement receipt will be given to the applicant having a unique application number on it.
Application will be scrutinized at different levels.
After proper verification of the application and documents, the final list of eligible beneficiaries will be selected by the District Level Selection Committee.
If the beneficiary fulfills all the eligible conditions and is willing to buy the vehicle from her own funds then she will have to submit her Subsidy Claim Form for releasing the subsidy.
The subsidy amount will be directly transferred to the beneficiaries bank account.
If the applicant wants to purchase the vehicle through loan then her application will be sent to a bank or vehicle financing company.
Key Features of the Scheme
Most of the working women in Tamil Nadu finds difficult to reached their work place on time.
The problem gets even worse when it is time to come back from the office.
So, keeping this in mind Tamil Nadu Government launches Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for Working Women.
In this scheme, any working women who is willing to buy two wheeler will get subsidy from Tamil Nadu Government.
The amount of subsidy is rupees 25,000/- or 50% of the cost of the vehicle, whichever is less.
Additional assistance of rupees 6,250/- will be given to disable beneficiary.
The remaining amount will be borne by the beneficiary by herself.
There is also a facility of loan through a bank or institutional loan for remaining amount.
Selected vehicle should be manufactured on or after 01.01.2018.
Only one women in a family is eligible to avail the benefit of the scheme.
The vehicles should only and only for the beneficiary's own use.
Vehicle should not be sold or transferred or gifted or lent to any other person for a minimum period of 3 years.